.TH BTT 1 "March 06, 2007" "blktrace git\-20070306202522" ""


.SH NAME
btt \- analyse block i/o traces produces by blktrace


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B btt [options] \-i <\fIinput file\fR>
.br
.B btt \-h | \-\-help
.br
.B btt \-V | \-\-version
.br


.SH DESCRIPTION

btt will take in binary dump data from blkparse, and analyse the events,
producing a series of output from the analysis. It will also build .dat
files containing "range data" -- showing things like Q activity (periods
of time while Q events are being produced), C activity (likewise for
command completions), and etc.


.SH OPTIONS

.B \-h
.br
.B \-\-help
.RS 4
Shows a short summary of possible command line option
.RE

.B \-V
.br
.B \-\-version
.RS 4
Shows the version of btt.
.RE

.B \-i
.br
.RS 4
Specifies the input file to analyse.  This should be a trace file as produces
by \fIblktrace\fR (8).
.RE

.B \-d <\fIseconds\fR>
.br
.B \-\-range\-delta=<\fIseconds\fR>
.RS 4
The \-d option allows you to specify the granularity which determines
"activity" with regard to the .dat files \-\- this specific the time
(in seconds) that must elapse without a particular event occurring to
signify inactivity. The larger the number, the fewer ranges output \-\-
the default is 0.1 seconds.
.RE

.B \-D <\fIdev;...\fR>
.br
.B \-\-devices=<\fIdev;...\fR>
.RS 4
The \-D option supplies the devices which should be looked at when
analysing the input. This is a ":" separated list of devices, devices are
specified by a mjr,mnr tuple (e.g.: \-D "8,0:8,8" specifies two devices
with major 8 and minor 0 and 8 respectively).
.RE

.B \-e <\fIexe,...\fR>
.br
.B \-\-exes=<\fIexe,...\fR>
.RS 4
The \-e option supplies the list of executables that will have I/Os
analysed.
.RE

.B \-I <\fIoutput name\fR>
.br
.B \-\-iostat=<\fIoutput name\fR>
.RS 4
The \-I option directs btt to output iostat\-like data to the specified
file.  Refer to the iostat (sysstat) documentation for details on the
data columns. 
.RE

.B \-l <\fIoutput name\fR>
.br
.B \-\-d2c\-latencies=<\fIoutput name\fR>
.RS 4
The \-l option allows one to output per\-IO D2C latencies
respectively. The supplied argument provides the basis for the output
name for each device.
.RE

.B \-M <\fIdev map\fR>
.br
.B \-\-dev\-maps=<\fIdev map\fR>
.RS 4
The \-M option takes in a file generated by the provided script
(gen_disk_info.py), and allows for better output of device names.
.RE

.B \-o <\fIoutput name\fR>
.br
.B \-\-output\-file=<\fIoutput name\fR>
.RS 4
Specifies the output file name.
.RE

.B \-p <\fIoutput name\fR>
.br
.B \-\-per\-io\-dump=<\fIoutput name\fR>
.RS 4
The \-p option will generate a file that contains a list of all IO
"sequences" \- showing the parts of each IO (Q, A, I/M, D, & C).
.RE

.B \-q <\fIoutput name\fR>
.br
.B \-\-q2c\-latencies=<\fIoutput name\fR>
.RS 4
The \-q option allows one to output per\-IO Q2C latencies
respectively. The supplied argument provides the basis for the output
name for each device.
.RE

.B \-s <\fIoutput name\fR>
.br
.B \-\-seeks=<\fIoutput name\fR>
.RS 4
The \-s option instructs btt to output seek data, the argument provided
is the basis for file names output. There are two files per device,
read seeks and write seeks.
.RE

.B \-S <\fIinterval\fR>
.br
.B \-\-iostat\-interval=<\fIinterval\fR>
.RS 4
The \-S option specifies the interval to use between data
output, it defaults to once per second.
.RE

.B \-t <\fIsec\fR>
.br
.B \-\-time\-start=<\fIsec\fR>
.br
.B \-T <\fIsec\fR>
.br
.B \-\-time\-end=<\fIsec\fR>
.RS 4
The \-t/\-T options allow one to set a start and/or end time for analysing
\- analysing will only be done for traces after \-t's argument and before
\-T's argument. (\-t and \-T are optional, so if you specify just \-t,
analysis will occur for all traces after the time specified. Similarly,
if only \-T is specified, analysis stops after \-T's seconds.)
.RE

.B \-v
.br
.B \-\-verbose
.RS 4
Requests a more verbose output.
.RE


.SH AUTHORS
\fIblkparse\fR was written by Jens Axboe, Alan D. Brunelle and Nathan Scott.  This
man page was created from the \fIblktrace\fR documentation by Bas Zoetekouw.


.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <linux\-btrace@vger.kernel.org>

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2006 Jens Axboe, Alan D. Brunelle and Nathan Scott.
.br
This is free software.  You may redistribute copies of it under the terms of
the GNU General Public License <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.br
This manual page was created for Debian by Bas Zoetekouw.  It was derived from
the documentation provided by the authors and it may be used, distributed and
modified under the terms of the GNU General Public License, version 2.
.br
On Debian systems, the text of the GNU General Public License can be found in
/usr/share/common\-licenses/GPL\-2.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
blktrace (8), blkparse (1), verify_blkparse (1), blkrawverify (1), btt (1)

